Restructuring the documentation: cleanup in operational (#5465)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/reference/pages/configuration/history.adoc

[[ga-alarm-history]]
= Alarm History

The alarm history feature integrates with Elasticsearch to provide long term storage and maintain a history of alarm state changes.

When enabled, alarms are indexed in Elasticsearch when they are created, deleted, or when any of the "interesting" fields on the alarm are updated (more on this below.)

Alarms are indexed so that operators can answer the following questions:

. What were all the state changes of a particular alarm?
. What was the last known state of an alarm at a given point in time?
. Which alarms were present (i.e. not deleted) on the system at a given point in time?
. Which alarms are currently present on the system?

A simple REST API is also made available for the purposes of evaluating the results, verifying the data that is stored and providing examples on how to query the data.

[[ga-alarm-history-requirements]]
== Requirements

This feature requires Elasticsearch 7.0+.

[[ga-alarm-history-setup]]
== Setup

Alarm history indexing can be enabled as follows:

> First, log in to the Karaf shell of your {page-component-title} instance and configure the Elasticsearch client settings to point to your Elasticsearch cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Log in to the Karaf shell of your {page-component-title} instance and configure the Elasticsearch client settings to point to your Elasticsearch cluster.
```

See <<elasticsearch/introduction.adoc#ga-elasticsearch-integration-configuration, Elasticsearch Integration Configuration>> for a complete list of available options.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```
add syntax to create line break but not mess up numbering.

[source, karaf]
----
$ ssh -p 8101 admin@localhost
...
admin@opennms()> config:edit org.opennms.features.alarms.history.elastic
admin@opennms()> config:property-set elasticUrl http://es:9200
admin@opennms()> config:update
----

. To make the alarm history feature start automatically on future service starts, add the line `opennms-alarm-history-elastic` to the file `$\{OPENNMS_HOME}/etc/featuresBoot.d/alarm.boot`.
(Create the file if it does not exist.)

> . To make the alarm history feature start now, log in to the Karaf shell and run the following command to load the feature:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To start the alarm history feature immediately, log in to the Karaf shell and run the following command to load the feature:
```

 feature:install opennms-alarm-history-elastic

[[ga-alarm-history-indexing]]
== Alarm indexing

> When alarms are initially created, we push a document to Elasticsearch that includes all of the alarm fields as well as additional details on some of the related objects (i.e., the node.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When alarms are initially created, {page-component-title} pushes a document to Elasticsearch that includes all of the alarm fields as well as additional details on some of the related objects (for example, the node.)
```

> In order to avoid pushing a new document every time a new event is reduced on to an existing alarm, we only push a new document when (at least) one of these conditions are met:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid pushing a new document every time a new event is reduced on to an existing alarm, we push a new document only when (at least) one of these conditions are met:
```
I'm not clear on what "reduced onto an existing alarm means".

. We have not recently pushed a document for that alarm. (See `alarmReindexDurationMs`.)
. The severity of the alarm has changed.
. The alarm has been acknowledged or unacknowledged.
. Either of the associated sticky or journal memos have changed.
. The state of the associated ticket has changed.
. The alarm has been associated with, or removed, from a situation.
. A related alarm has been added or removed from the situation.

NOTE: To change this behavior and push a new document for *every* change, you can set `indexAllUpdates` to `true`.

> When alarms are deleted, we push a new document that contains the alarm id, reduction key, and deletion time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When alarms are deleted, we push a new document that contains the alarm ID, reduction key, and deletion time.
```

The following table describes a subset of the fields in the alarm document:

[options="header"]
[cols="1,3"]
|===
| Field | Description

| @first_event_time
| Timestamp in milliseconds associated with the first event that triggered this alarm.

| @first_event_time
| Timestamp in milliseconds associated with the last event that triggered this alarm.

| @update_time

> | Timestamp in milliseconds at which the document was created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Timestamp in milliseconds when the document was created.
```

| @deleted_time
| Timestamp in milliseconds when the alarm was deleted.

| id
| Database ID associated with the alarm.

| reduction_key
| Key used to reduce events on to the alarm.

| severity_label
| Severity of the alarm.

| severity_id
| Numerical ID used to represent the severity.

> 
> |===

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|===
```

[[ga-alarm-history-options]]
== Options

In addition to those mentioned in <<elasticsearch/introduction.adoc#ga-elasticsearch-integration-configuration, Elasticsearch Integration Configuration>>, you can set the following optional properties in `$\{OPENNMS_HOME}/etc/org.opennms.features.alarms.history.elastic.cfg`:

[options="header"]
[cols="1,3,2"]
|===
| Property
| Description
| Default

| indexAllUpdates
| Index every alarm update, including simple event reductions.
| false

| alarmReindexDurationMs

> | Number of milliseconds to wait before re-indexing an alarm if nothing "interesting" has changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Number of milliseconds to wait before re-indexing an alarm if nothing "interesting" has changed.
```
"interesting" is vague. Could we say "if nothing significant (like x or y) has changed." and then list two items. Or does this refer back to the list that we had earlier in this section?
